# Online Attitudes Toward Immigration
#### Yerka Freire-Vidal, Eduardo Graells-Garrido y Francisco Rowe

#### Abstract

Migration is a phenomenon which has been present in all periods of worldwide history. However, during the last decades there has been an increasing flow of international migration in the world [1]. Therefore, this phenomenon remains a relevant political issue in our current societies. One of the effects of migration that continues to worry many countries is the social cohesion between immigrants and locals, because a bad immigrant integration often become them social marginalized.  It is common that immigrants who do not adapt well in a socially suffer the social marginalization effects and socio-economic inequalities in society are accentuated. For instance, Algan et al. (2010) show that the local population has higher employment, education, and income than the ethnic minorities in U.K., Germany and France [2]. It is therefore essential, to know whether there is discrimination and/or anti-immigrant sentiments in the receiving populations, as this may negatively affect the integration of immigrants, which will most likely further reinforce inequality and these attitudes can lead to acts of violence, discrimination and abuse.

Although there is an extensive literature, from political economy and socio-psychology, that attempts to explain local attitudes towards immigration (for a detailed review, see J. Hainmueller et al. 2014 [3] and T. Pettigrew et al. 2015 [4]), the methods for quantifying such attitudes are quite limited. Most research in this area uses surveys or experimental designs specific to each case study, which reveals a set of empirical difficulties, such as; the high costs of implementing surveys, desirability biases in responses, difficulty of replication in other contexts or locations, it is not possible to capture the dynamic nature of attitudes, among others. In the face of these difficulties, we note that currently we have a technological advantage; digital fingerprints and social networks. Because we are constantly interacting in our social networks and through them we express our ideas, opinions, feelings, comments about the most diverse topics, among others. And very relevant, we do it freely and voluntarily. In this way, we present a method to measure and quantify attitudes towards immigration using data from the social media (in our case study: microblogging platform Twitter) and we focus our efforts on understanding the textual content of posts (tweets). For this purpose, we use topic modeling because these models allow us to discover the hidden semantic structure in a text documents body. Thus, we define the attitudes toward immigration as the composition of two topics; one representing positive attitudes and one representing negative attitudes. Since we know beforehand what each topic should represent, and based on the theoretical models that explain attitudes towards immigration, it is possible for us to guide the training of the search for topics. Therefore, we use a semi-supervised topic model named Topic-Supervised Non Negative Matrix Factorization (TS-NMF) [5]. We propose this method as a complement to the traditional methods used in the study of attitudes towards immigration, since it allows us to operationalize the theoretical models of attitude formation and quantify such attitudes in a given population (Twitter users in our case study), to access the dynamics of attitudes, and not only in tweets, but it is replicable for any type of text that may contain attitudes towards immigration; and all this at a low cost.

As a particular case study, we chose the Chilean society because, while immigration is not a new phenomenon in Chile, currently it has become a very contingent topic because immigrant population has drastically increased in recent years. The percentage of immigrants increased, from 0.8%  in 1992 to 4.35%  in 2017, and 66.7 %  of immigrants declare to have arrived in Chile between 2010-2017; mainly from 2016 [6]. Also, the composition of immigrants has also changed. Haiti being the most notorious case since they have a different native language (créol), their country is one of the poorest in the world, and most of them are of Afro-Haitian descent, an ethnicity that was almost non-present in Chile. For this, Chileans have developed diverse perceptions regarding the number of immigrants in the country and the phenomenon itself. This makes Chile a relevant case study for attitudes toward immigration.
